WHERE IS JAMES ?
James and  Mary in garden.
The weather is nice today, warm.
But yesterday it was very cold ! They could not play outside then .
James and Mary love to play , they always play together in the garden in front of the big house .
 James  is six years old little boy.  
Girl  is his sister, she  is five years old.  
James has a small dog , the dog is also in the garden now .
The dog likes to play with the two children .
The dog is very happy now .
Does Mary also have a dog ? 
No , Mary does not have a dog , she has a cat .
But the cat is in the house , the cat is sleeping .
Their mother is in the house with the cat , she looks through the window and sees James and Mary playing .
James quickly runs to a big old tree , he is hiding from Mary .
Do you know why ? Mary is sitting and has her hands in front of her eyes .
She can not see anything and she is counting .
Why does she do that ? And what is James doing near the tree ?
It is a game .
When Mary has finished counting she looks around .
She is searching for James : where did he go ? Did you see him ?
Mary does not know where James is .
She asks the dog : " Did you see James? " .
But the dog can not speak of course ! 
So Mary gets no answer to her question .
People never get an answer when they speak to dogs !
Mary looks at her mother behind the window , her mother is laughing .
Mary thinks that she has seen where James went : 
"where  James, tell !" asks.  
"No,  Mary, can not tell"  she answers.  
Although she probably knows where he is , she does not want to tell .
Mary slowly walks through the garden .
She is still trying to find James .
She looks under the table and under the chairs , but James is not there .
She looks everywhere but she can not find James .
Then she hears a sound , it is coming from behind the big old tree .
Could that be James ? There is the sound again ! She listens carefully .
It is not a bird or another animal .
She can hear it well now .
That  have to be  James is !
Then she also sees a little hand and when she walks closer she also sees his head ! 
" You found!" laughs.  
They are both happy and go to the house , it is time to eat something and drink some water !
