How I stopped the Taliban from shutting down my school
In the Name of Allah, the most Gracious, the most Merciful.
I was born in a middle class family.
My father was five years old when he lost his father
but by the time I was born, he was already a businessman.
But it didn't make a difference to him if his children were going to be a boy or a girl
they were going to go to school.
So I guess I was the lucky one.
My mother had 16 pregnancies.
From 16 pregnancies, five of us are alive.
You can imagine as a child what I went through.
Day to day, I watched women being carried to a graveyard, or watched children going to a graveyard.
At that time, when I finished my high school, I really wanted to be a doctor.
I wanted to be a doctor to help women and children.
So I completed my education, but I wanted to go to university.
Unfortunately, in my country, there wasn't a dormitory for girls
I was accepted in medical school, but I could not go there.
So as a result, my father sent me to America.
I came to America.
I completed my education.
While I was completing my education, my country was invaded by Russia.
And do you know that at the time I was completing my education
I didn't know what was going on with my family or with my country.
There were months, years
I didn't know about it.
My family was in a refugee camp.
So as soon as I completed my education, I brought my family to America.
I wanted them to be safe.
But where was my heart?
My heart was in Afghanistan.
Day after day, when I listened to the news, when I followed what was going on with my country, my heart was breaking up.
I really wanted to go back to my country, but at the same time I knew I could not go there, because there was no place for me.
I had a good job.
I was a professor at a university.
I earned good money.
I had a good life.
My family was here.
I could live with them.
But I wasn't happy.
I wanted to go back home.
So I went to the refugee camp.
And when I went to the refugee camp in Pakistan, there were 7.5 million refugees. 7.5 million refugees.
About 90 percent of them were women and children.
Most of the men have been killed or they were in war.
And you know, in the refugee camp, when I went day-to-day to do a survey, I found things you never could imagine.
I saw a widow with five to eight children sitting there and weeping and not knowing what to do.
I saw a young woman have no way to go anywhere
no education, no entertainment, no place to even live.
I saw young men that had lost their father and their home
they are supporting the family as a 10-to-12-year old boy -- being the head of the household, trying to protect their sister and their mother and their children.
So it was a very devastating situation.
My heart was beating for my people, and I didn't know what to do.
At that moment, we talk about momentum.
At that moment, I felt, what can I do for these people?
How could I help these people?
I am one individual.
What can I do for them?
But at that moment, I knew that education changed my life.
It transformed me.
It gave me status.
It gave me confidence.
It gave me a career.
It helped me to support my family
to bring my family to another country, to be safe.
And I knew that at that moment that what I should give to my people is education and health
that's what I went after.
But do you think it was easy?
No, because at that time, education was banned for girls, completely.
And also, by Russia invading Afghanistan, people were not trusting anyone.
It was very hard to come and say, I want to do this.
Who am I?
Somebody who comes from the United States.
Somebody who got educated here.
Did they trust me?
Of course not.
So I really needed to build the trust in this community.
How am I going to do that?
I went and surveyed and looked and looked.
I asked.
Finally, I found one man.
He was 80 years old.
He was a mullah.
I went to his tent in the camp, and I asked him, I want to make you a teacher.
And he looked at me, and he said, Crazy woman
crazy woman, how do you think I can be a teacher?
And I told him, I will make you a teacher.
Finally, he accepted my offer, and once I started a class in his compound, the word spread all over.
In a matter of one year, we had 25 schools set up
15 thousands children going to school, and it was amazing.
Applause.
Thank you.
But of course, we're doing all our work, we were giving teacher training.
We were training women's rights, human rights, democracy, rule of law.
