how science can wake  love of kid ?
When I was a kid, my parents would tell me, You can foul, but you have to clean yourself.
Freedom  walks together with responsibility.
But my imagination would take me to all these wonderful places, where everything was possible.
So I grew up in a bubble of innocence -- or a bubble of ignorance
because adults would lie to us to protect us from the ugly truth.
And growing up, I found out that adults make a mess, and they're not very good at cleaning up after themselves.
Fast forward, I am an adult now, and I teach citizen science and invention at the Hong Kong Harbour School.
And it doesn't take too long before my students walk on a beach and stumble upon piles of trash.
So as good citizens, we clean up the beaches
and no, he is not drinking alcohol, and if he is, I did not give it to him.
Laugh.
And so it's sad to say, but today more than 80 percent of the oceans have plastic in them.
It's a horrifying fact.
And in past decades, we've been taking those big ships out and those big nets, and we collect those plastic bits that we look at under a microscope, and we sort them, and then we put this data onto a map.
But that takes forever, it's very expensive
so it's quite risky to take those big boats out.
So with my students, ages six to 15, we've been dreaming of inventing a better way.
So we've transformed our tiny Hong Kong classroom into a workshop.
And so we started building this small workbench, with different heights, so even really short kids can participate.
kids with power tools are safe.
 Laughter.
like it is not .
And so, back to plastic.
We collect this plastic and we grind it to the size we find it in the ocean
which is very small because it breaks down.
How function?
I let the imaginations of my students run wild.
And my job is to try to collect the best of each kid's idea
try to combine it into something that hopefully would work.
And so we have agreed that instead of collecting plastic bits, we are going to collect only the data.
So we're going to get an image of the plastic with a robot
kids get very excited.
And the next thing we do -- we do what we call rapid prototyping.
We are so rapid at prototyping that the lunch is still in the lunchbox when we're hacking it.
Laughter.
And we hack table lamps and webcams, into plumbing fixtures and we assemble that into a floating robot that will be slowly moving through water
through the plastic that we have there
this is the image that we get in the robot.
So we see the plastic pieces floating slowly through the sensor, and the computer on board will process this image
and measure the size of each particle, so we have a rough estimate of how much plastic there is in the water.
So we documented this invention step by step on a website for inventors called Instructables, in the hope that somebody would make it even better.
What was really cool about this project was that the students saw a local problem, and boom -- they are trying to immediately address it.
I can investigate my local problem
But   my Hong Kong students - in hyperconnect  kids.
And they watch the news, they watch the Internet, and they came across this image.
This was a child, probably under 10, cleaning up an oil spill bare-handed
in the Sundarbans, which is the world's largest mangrove forest in Bangladesh.
They  shocked highly.
because this is the water they drink, this is the water they bathe in
this is the water they fish in -- this is the place where they live.
And also you can see the water is brown, the mud is brown and oil is brown, so when everything is mixed up, it's really hard to see what's in the water.
But, there's a technology that's rather simple, that's called spectrometry, that allows you see what's in the water.
So we built a rough prototype of a spectrometer
you can shine light through different substances that produce different spectrums, so that can help you identify what's in the water.
So we packed this prototype of a sensor, and we shipped it to Bangladesh.
So what was cool about this project was that beyond addressing a local problem, or looking at a local problem, my students used their empathy and their sense of being creative to help, remotely, other kids.
