WHERE is  JAMES ?
 James and  Mary in garden.  
today Weather is quite good , warm.  
But yesterday is too cold !  Thus they  could not play outside.
 James and  Mary play likes, unchanged big house  they in their front  plays together garden.
 James  is six years old little boy.  
 Girl  is his sister, He  is five years old.  
 James  has one small dog, now He and in garden.  
 Dog  play with babies likes.  
now Dog is too glad .
While  Mary  bar  dog  ?  
No,  Mary does not have dog, his cat existed.  
But in house  cat, is bedding.
with cat  Their mother in house, from window  He  James and  Mary play is looking.  
one old big tree   James onto highly run is getting, in left tree  He from Mary is hiding.  
Nor for is  did know?  with arm   Mary  eyes are raining.  
He  was not looking nothing, He is counting.  
He nor for is taking?  While of tree   James in soul nor is dealing?
That in game.  
 Mary count end beyond to around looked.  
He " James  pasted which place?   Him did looked?" is seeking.
 Mary does not know where  James is.  
from Dog " James did looked?" asks.  
While  dog, of course, can not speak.  
Hence,  Mary themselves to poll can not interrogate.  
 People  speak with dog from Him  can not interrogate never!
 Mary  stand in window to mother looks.  
 Mary  smile of mother look  James  He which place past knows fancies.  
"where  James, tell !" asks.  
"No,  Mary, can not tell"  He answers.  
 James  He where is  know  wanted to tell.
of garden   Mary in inside  is coping in slow.  
Still find  James  is trying.  
 Board and of chairs  is looking  under, but with Him   James not.  
He  is looking with overall site, but  James can  not find.
from Him beyond He  hears one sound,  sound  He old big tree  is exiting behind.  
 Likely that  is  James?  He  return  sound is heard!   Him   Mary  slow hears.  
 beast  He and,  bird and is not .  
now He  sound  He clearer hear began.  
That  have to be  James is !
from Him beyond to Him to tiny one to tame appears. Nearer come his outcrop  He and looks.  
" You found!" laughs.  
They both and  onto merry house is coming, where eat,  water take  term was!
