No. 3/1922:

APPROPRIATION ACT, 1922.
		
		

AN ACT TO GRANT AND APPROPRIATE CERTAIN SUMS FOR THE SERVICE OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING ON THE 31st DAY OF MARCH, 1923.
		

[20th December, 1922.]
		
		

BE IT ENACTED BY THE OIREACHTAS OF SAORSTÁT EIREANN AS FOLLOWS:—
		

1.—The Minister of Finance may issue out of the Central Fund and apply towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ending on the thirty-first day of March, one thousand nine hundred and twenty-three, such sum as together with sums already issued for Supply Services out of the Consolidated Fund of the Provisional Government shall amount to the aggregate sum of thirty-eight million fifty-one thousand and eighty-six pounds.
		

2.—(i.) The Minister of Finance may borrow from any person or banking corporation in Saorstát Eireann and the Bank of Ireland may advance to the Minister of Finance on the credit of the sum authorised to be issued by Section One of this Act any sum or sums not exceeding the amount so authorised, and for the purpose of such borrowing the Minister of Finance may create and issue any securities bearing such rate of interest and subject to such conditions as to repayment, redemption or otherwise as he thinks fit.
		

(ii.) The principal and interest of any securities issued under this Act and the expenses incurred in connection with the issue of such securities shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.
		

(iii.) Any money raised by securities issued under this Act shall be placed to the credit of the account of the Exchequer and shall form part of the Central Fund and be available in any manner in which such Fund is available.
		

3. All sums granted by this Act, together with sums already issued for Supply Services out of the Consolidated Fund of the Provisional Government, amounting in the aggregate to thirty-eight million fifty-one thousand and eighty-six pounds as set out in column (3) of the Schedule to this Act, are appropriated and shall be deemed to have been appropriated for the services and purposes expressed in column (2) of the said Schedule.
		

The said Schedule shall be deemed to be part of this Act in the same manner as if it had been contained in the body thereof.
		

In addition to the sums hereby granted out of the Central Fund there may be applied out of any money directed under Section two of the Public Accounts and Charges Act, 1891, to be applied as appropriations in aid of the grants for the services and purposes specified in column (2) of the said Schedule the sums respectively set forth in column (4) of the said Schedule.
		

4. A person shall not receive any part of a grant which may be made in pursuance of this Act for non-effective services until he has subscribed such declaration as may from time to time be prescribed by a warrant of the Minister of Finance before one of the persons prescribed by such warrant.
		

Provided that whenever any such payment is made at more frequent intervals than once in a quarter the Minister of Finance may dispense with the production of more than one declaration in respect of each quarter.
		

Any person who makes a declaration for the purpose of this section, knowing the same to be untrue in any material particular, shall be guilty of a misdemeanour.
		

5. This Act may be cited for all purposes as the Appropriation Act, 1922 .

SCHEDULE.

SCHEDULE of Sums Granted and of Sums which may be applied as Appropriations in Aid in addition thereto to defray the charges of the several Public Services herein particularly mentioned, which will come in course of payment during the year ending 31st day of March, 1923, viz.:—
		
Sums not exceeding.

Supply Grants. 	

Appropriations in Aid.

For the salaries and expenses of the Ministry of Finance, including certain subordinate departments.

For grants to Universities and Colleges, including grants under the Irish Universities Act, 1908.

For Old Age Pensions, for certain administrative expenses in connection therewith, and for pensions under the Blind Persons Act, 1920.

For charges connected with hospitals and infirmaries, and certain miscellaneous charitable and other allowances, including sundry grants in aid.

For the expenses of reformatory and industrial schools, including places of detention.

For the expenses of criminal prosecutions and other law charges, including a grant in relief of certain expenses payable by statute out of local rates.

For the salaries and allowances and expenses of various county court officers and of magistrates, bonus to chairmen of quarter sessions and recorders and to clerks of the Crown and Peace, and expenses of revision.

For certain miscellaneous expenses, including certain grants in aid.

For the salaries and expenses of the Insurance Commission, and for sundry contributions and grants in respect of the cost of benefits and expenses of administration under the National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1921 (including certain grants in aid).

Carried forward.

Brought forward.
		

		
For the salaries and expenses of the office of the Commissioners of Charitable Donations and Bequests.

For the salaries and expenses of the General Valuation and Boundary Survey, including Estate Duty Valuation under the Finance (1909-10) Act, 1910.

For the salaries and expenses of the Office of Public Works.

For expenditure in respect of Public Buildings; for the maintenance of certain parks and public works, for maintenance of drainage works on the river Shannon and sundry grants in aid.

For payments under the Tramways and Public Companies (Ireland) Act, 1883, etc., and for other purposes connected with Irish Railways.

For the salaries and expenses of the Commissioner of Police, the police courts and the metropolitan police establishment of Dublin.

For the expenses of the General Prisons Board and of the establishments under their control, the registration of habitual criminals, and the maintenance of criminal lunatics confined in district lunatic asylums.

For the salaries and expenses of the Public Record Office and of the Keeper of State Papers.

For the salaries and expenses of the Supreme Court of Judicature and of the High Court of Appeal.

For the expenses of the Department of National Education, including grants in aid of the Teachers' Pension Fund.

Carried forward.

Brought forward.
		

		
For intermediate education, including the Teachers' Salaries Grant.

For the salary of the secretary, including bonus and the expenses of the office of the Commissioners for managing certain school endowments.

For the salaries and expenses of the Ministry of Agriculture, and of certain services administered by that Ministry, including sundry grants in aid.

For the salaries and expenses of the Institutions of Science and Art, Dublin, and of the Geological Survey of Ireland, and annual grants to schools and classes of Science and Art and Technical Instruction, including sundry grants in aid, administered by the Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction.

For the salaries and expenses of the National Gallery.

For Grants administered by the Congested Districts Board, including grants in aid.

For the salaries and expenses of the Ministry of Local Government, including grants and other expenses in connection with housing, grants to local authorities and sundry grants in aid.

For the salaries and expenses of the department of the Registrar-General of Births, etc, including bonus to the Registrar-General, and the expenses of collecting emigration statistics.

For the maintenance of criminal lunatics in the Dundrum Asylum.

Carried forward.

Brought forward.
		
For the salaries and expenses of the Transport Department of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, including certain payments in connection with Railways.

For the Ireland Development Grant (grant in aid).

For the expense of providing stationery, printing, paper, binding, and printed books for the public service, for the salaries and expenses of the Stationery Office, and for sundry miscellaneous services, including reports of Oireachtas debates.

For the salaries and expenses of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, including Umpire and Courts of Referees, contributions to the Unemployment Insurance Fund and to Special Schemes, and to the Unemployed Workers' Dependents' Fund, and payment to Associations under the Unemployment Insurance Acts.

To provide capital for the Local Loans Fund, and to make repayment to the British Government in respect of local loans outstanding on 1st April, 1922.

For the salaries and expenses of the Department of the Comptroller and Auditor-General.

For the salaries and other expenses of Temporary Commissions, Committees, and Special Inquiries.

For expenses under the Representation of the People Act, 1918.

Carried forward.

Brought forward.
		

For payments by way of loans for purposes of reconstruction in anticipation of the determination by the Compensation (Ireland) Commission of fair and reasonable compensation in cases where the Government are satisfied that such a course is specially desirable in the interests of industry, trade or employment.

For the salaries and expenses of the secretariat and special services.

For the cost of the Army.

For loans for the purpose of reconstructing destroyed buildings in Cork City.

For the salaries and expenses of the Civic Guard.

For superannuation, compensation, compassionate and additional allowances and gratuities under sundry Statutes, compensation under Article 10 of the Treaty of the 6th December, 1921, compassionate allowances, gratuities and supplementary pensions awarded by the Ministry of Finance, the salary of the Medical Referee; and sundry repayments in respect of pensions at present paid by the British Government.

For the salaries and expenses of the Ministry of Home Affairs.

For special grants towards the relief of unemployment and distress.

For payments in respect of destruction of, or injuries to, property on or after the 21st January, 1919.

For rates and contributions in lieu of rates, etc., in respect of Government propery.

For recoupment of local authorities of amounts due to them in respect of Local Taxation Grants formerly withheld by the British Government.

Carried forward.

Brought forward.
		
For the salaries and expenses of the Customs and Excise service.

For the salaries and expenses of the Inland Revenue Service.

For the salaries and expenses of the Criminal Investigation Department.

For a grant in aid in respect of the improvement of Croke Park in connection with the Tailteann Games.

For the salaries and expenses of the Marine Service.

For the salaries and expenses of Dáil Eireann.

For the salaries and expenses of the Land Commission.

For the salaries and expenses of the Post Office, including Telegraphs and Telephones.

For a grant in aid of the Forestry Fund.

For Secret Services.

For the salaries and expenses of the Ordnance Survey, and of minor services connected therewith.

For the salaries and expenses of additional and unforeseen services.

For the salaries and expenses of District Justices.

For compensation in respect of personal injuries or death.

For the salaries and expenses of the Governor General's establishment.

For grant in aid of the Development Fund.

For the salaries and expenses of the Ministry of External Affairs.

Total.

