Movies can make profits in the hundreds of millions , be they dollars , euro or pounds .

In India movies have become an enormous part of the economy .

The industry has always been dominated by quite a small number of major studios , like MGM , Warner , Columbia or Paramount .

There are many large companies that provide all of the services needed to make movies , such as special effects , lighting , set building .

Many of these employees belong to unions who say how much their members must be paid .

A huge number of smaller companies also offer services , such as music studios ( which record the music for original movie soundtracks ) and CGI ( computer generated imagery ) .

Finally there are movie distribution companies ( which send movies around the world or around a country ) , and advertising companies who let people know about the movie and promote it ( try to make people want to see the movie ) .

Movies with famous stars and large budgets ( lots of money ) , are designed to have a wide appeal , so that hopefully millions of people will pay to see them .

Movies like this , which always cost the most to make , are called blockbusters .

Special effects can add a huge amount to the cost of a movie , especially the newest CGI effects , but people have come to expect them and every blockbuster movie tries to out-do the last .

Today in 2008 , some movies can cost up to $ 200 million to make .

But when you stop to think that very successful movies can make many times that amount in profit , it is easy to see why the studios keep producing them .

This kind of movie will have a lot of promotion through television advertising , billboards and internet sites .

In blockbuster movies , there is usually a happy ending , in which all of the problems in the plot ( story ) are figured out or fixed and almost everyone ( except the baddie ) live happily ever after .

Some movies have been so successful that the studios keep releasing more and more movies with the same characters and basic plots .

At the opposite end of the scale to the blockbuster , there is the independent , art , or Indie movie .

These are usually made by small movie companies , or even just a small group of people that do not have much money .

Movies like this are very unusual and usually become popular ' underground ' ( people tell each other about it ) , so that they become cult , or popular but not mainstream .

Independent movies often tell more creative or unusual ( strange ) stories , or may have sad endings that do not appeal to the big studios , because they can not be sure how the public will react to them .

They rarely make a lot of money , but if they are successful , the big studios will quickly try to get the people involved to sign a contract with them , by offering them a lot of money to make another movie .

It is often the case that the new movie , with its big budget and its stars will be less successful than the first .

Movies , also known as films , are a type of visual communication which use moving pictures and sound to tell stories or inform ( help people to learn ) .

People in every part of the world watch movies as a type of entertainment , a way to have fun .

Fun for some people can mean laughing , while for others it can mean crying , or feeling afraid .

Most movies are made so that they can be shown on big screens at cinemas or movie theatres .

After movies are shown on movie screens for a period of time ( ranging from a few weeks to several months ) , movies are shown on pay television or cable television , and sold or rented on DVD disks or videocassette tapes , so that people can watch the movies at home .

You can also download or stream movies .

Later movies are shown on television stations .

A movie camera or video camera takes pictures very quickly , usually at 25 pictures ( frames ) every second .

When a movie projector , a computer , or a television shows the pictures at that rate , it looks like the things shown in the set of pictures are really moving .

Sound is either recorded at the same time , or added later .

The sounds in a movie usually include the sounds of people talking ( which is called dialogue ) , music ( which is called the " soundtrack " ) , and sound effects , the sounds of activities that are happening in the movie ( such as doors opening or guns being fired ) .

A screenwriter writes a script , which is the story of the movie with words that the actors will say .

Then a producer hires people to work on the movie and gets all of the money that will be needed to pay for the actors and the equipment .

Producers usually get the money by borrowing it from a bank or by getting investors to lend money to the movie production .

Some producers work for a movie studio ; other producers are independent ( they do not work for a movie studio ) .

Actors and directors read scripts to find out what to say and what to do .

The actors memorize the words from the script that they will say in the movie , and learn the actions that the script tells them to do .

Then the director tells the actors what to do and a cameraman takes motion pictures of them with a motion picture camera .

When filming has finished , an editor puts the moving pictures together in a way that tells the whole story within a set amount of time .

Audio engineers and sound engineers record music and singing and join it with the moving pictures .

When the movie is done , many copies of the movie are made by movie labs and put onto movie reels .

Then the movie reels are sent to cinemas .

An electric machine called a projector shines a very bright light through the movie , and people sitting in a dark room see it on a big screen .

A genre is a word for a type of movie or a style of movie .

The Kyrgyz Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic was set up in 1920 and was renamed the Kazakh Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic in 1925 when the Kazakhs were differentiated officially from the Kyrgyz .

The Russian Empire recognised the ethnic difference between the two groups ; it called them both Kyrgyz to avoid confusion between the terms Kazakh and Cossack ( both names originating from Turkic " free man " ) .

In keeping with practices in other republics at that time , the parliament had named Nazarbayev its chairman , and then , soon afterward , it had converted the chairmanship to the presidency of the republic .

In contrast to the presidents of the other republics , especially those in the independence-minded Baltic states , Nazarbayev remained strongly committed to the perpetuation of the Soviet Union throughout the spring and summer of 1991 .

He took this position largely because he considered the republics too interdependent economically to survive separation .

At the same time , however , Nazarbayev fought hard to secure republic control of Kazakhstan 's enormous mineral wealth and industrial potential .

This objective became particularly important after 1990 , when it was learned that Gorbachev had negotiated an agreement with Chevron , an American oil company , to develop Kazakhstan 's Tengiz oil fields .

Gorbachev did not consult Nazarbayev until talks were nearly complete .

At Nazarbayev 's insistence , Moscow surrendered control of the republic 's mineral resources in June 1991 .

Gorbachev 's authority crumbled rapidly throughout 1991 .

Nazarbayev , however , continued to support him , persistently urging other republic leaders to sign the revised Union Treaty , which Gorbachev had put forward in a last attempt to hold the Soviet Union together .

Kazakhstan has followed the same general political pattern as the other four Central Asian states .

After declaring independence from the Soviet political structure completely dominated by Moscow and the Communist Party of the Soviet Union ( CPSU ) until 1991 , Kazakhstan retained the basic governmental structure and , in fact , most of the same leadership that had occupied the top levels of power in 1990 .

Nursultan Nazarbayev , first secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan ( CPK ) beginning in 1989 , was elected president of the republic in 1991 and remained in undisputed power five years later .

Nazarbayev took several effective steps to ensure his position .

The constitution of 1993 made the prime minister and the Council of Ministers responsible solely to the president , and in 1995 a new constitution reinforced that relationship .

Furthermore , opposition parties were severely limited by legal restrictions on their activities .

Within that rigid framework , Nazarbayev gained substantial popularity by limiting the economic shock of separation from the security of the Soviet Union and by maintaining ethnic harmony in the highly diverse country with more than 100 different nationalities .
