Last year I had written upon e-books that how did I finally scarifice printed books to adopt e-books.
There wasn't any alternative available at that time, Amazon's Kindle was the only good solution. 
But instead of Kindle device I preferred Android tablet, afterall Amazon Kindle software is available for Windows, Mac, Android, Windows Phone, iPhone, iPad, etc 
Now a year later some other players are also in the field.
Flipkart released it's e-book in the market some time ago.
Flipkart germinated by selling books and slowly it started selling other merchandise.
But being a third party vendor it's e-books can only be read on Android because it's e-book reader app is available only for Android.
So, if you wish to read on any other mobile device or computer then it isn't useful for you.
Then another problem is that it's collection is very less right now, there aren't many books.
Many new and popular books are not available as e-books although Flipkart is selling their printed versions. 
Talking about price, it's prices are little higher as compared to Amazon.
Another player who has come into the field is Google.
Google Play Store has been selling e-books, etc for a long time now but its been only a couple of weeks since its trending in India.
Despite of being Anroid's producer e-books bought from Google Play Store can be read on not just Android but can also be read on computer and iPhone / iPad.
In addition Google also supports e-book readers like Sony eReader, Kobo, Nook, etc.
Apart from that you can also download some e-books in ePud and PDF format.
But all is not rosy with Google Play Store.
There are two major issues due to which it is difficult to adopt it.
Price of books on Google Play Store are very high compared to Amazon Kindle Store, even double or more in many cases.
For instance a new novel of Amish Tripathi that released few days back - The Oath of the Vayuputras - is available for Rs 176 on Amazon Kindle Store whereas it costs Rs 189 on Google Play Store.  
Its not much of a difference, a matter of merely thirteen rupees, can be neglected.
But I have also seen a large difference in many books.
For another example J.R.R. Tolkien's (writer of Lord of the Rings) 76 year old novel - The Hobbit - is available for Rs 152 on Amazon Kindle Store whereas it costs Rs 303 on Google Play Store.
