each day over four crore Americans prefer to eat pizza.
it is believed to be most popular eatable stuff in the world.
it certainly is included in one of the favourite food of Americans
seeing its popularity, the American agriculture Ministry issued a report about its consumption.
the report describes it as a eatable stuff which contributes fat, calcium and sodium along with nutrients to American food. 
it is popular, but is it also harmful to you ?
scientists argue that pizza is not harmful for health, the real problem is when and how you eat it.
according to this report almost 13 percent Americans eat pizza every day, including kids and youngsters the figure increases to 22 percent. 
if it were made at home then there would not be anything to worry about.
the president association of nutritionists of Spain Giuseppe Russolillo says, "you should keep in mind that many people consider it as artistic product in Italy, it is seen as a form of junk food in America."
they say that pizza is mostly bought from fast food shops or supermarkets.
man eat more pizza in comparison to women in America but eating habit in different ethnic groups.
16 percent of the non-Hispanic white people eat pizza while 14 percent of non-Hispanic black people or Hispanics eat at least one slice of pizza a day.
Ruben Bravo of European Medical Institute of Obesity tells the BBC, "This says  about the American diet. It could also be a reason why America has highest number of cases of obesity. "
Russolillo also did agree with arguement of Bravo.
he says that pizza should not be eaten more than two-three times a month.
he says, "it should not be a part of everyday diet."
it should be even lesser for kids, because it is their developmental period, in this period you should give them different types of healthy food with vegetables and fruits."
pizza came in vogue in America at the beginning of the 20th century due to influence of Italian immigrants.
the first restaurant was opened in New York in 1905.
hereafter, Americans' love for pizza has kept increasing.
according to speculation three billion pizzas are sold in America each year.
according to report of American agriculture ministry pizza has 6 percent contibution in the total energy obtained from the meal of a 19 year old. 
it is 4 percent in adults.
the day pizza is consumed, it contributes to 27 percent of the total energy of consumers of all age groups.
